Listing contents

ls : list  contents
ls -a : list all contents along with hidden files / directories
ls -l : list the contents with additional info related to files / directories
ls -al : list all the contents with addition info 


Creating a file:

Using vim or vi:

vi filename: 
which opens up a vi editor to enter the text. 
In order to save the file, press ESC and :wq to save. 
In order to exit without saving, press ESC and :q to quit


Using nano:

nano filename:
which opens up a nano editor to enter the text.
In order to save the file, enter Control + O
In order to exit without save, enter Control + X


Using touch:

touch filename: Which creates a file with empty content


Display the information in the file

cat filename : displays the content that resides in a file
cat file1 file2 file3 : displays the content of all 3 files
cat * : display the content of all files of the current directory / folder





Creating Directories:

mkdir dir_name
mkdir dir1 dir2 dir 3
mkdir -p /public/stylesheets/test


Renaming a file/folder:

mv oldname newname

Note: Can use mv command to move the file to a different location

EG: mv filname /tmp/sub/filename


Current working Directory : pwd
Change to prev. Directory: cd ..
To move to other directory: cd Dirname(path)

Relative paths wont have / ( from within directories )
Absolute paths have / infront of the path ( from root )


Removing Files or folders:

rm filename/ foldername
rm -rf filename/foldername



File permissions:
Every file or folder is assigned with a set of permission at user, group and others levels with Read, Write and Executable permissions.

enter ls -al command to see the file permissions.

drwxr-xr-x    5 pavankumar.k  staff       160 Nov  9 20:14 node_modules
-rw-r--r--    1 pavankumar.k  staff        13 Feb 18 18:56 nodehosts


The first colomn in the above examples defines file permissions.

It can be divided into d( file type )  rwx ( user permissions ) r-x ( group permissions ) r-x ( others permissions )


The second colomn defines the block storage

the third colomn defines the user/owner of the file/directory

the fourth colom defines the group attached to the file / folder

the fifth colom defines the time stamp

the six colom defines the file/directory name


The file permissions can be added or removed using chmod command:

EG: chmod +x filename


Operator used:

+ to add additional
- to revoke or remove
= to assign a specific set of permissions

The Numerical format to assign permissions
0 for no permissions.
1 for execute.
2 for write.
3 for execute and write.
4 for read.
5 for execute and read.
6 for write and read.
7 for execute, write, and read.


EG: chmod 754 filename

which means user has (rwx)
group has ( r-x)
others  has ( r--) permissions




Changing the ownership of a file

chown newuser filename


Changing groupname to a file

chgrp newgrp filename


changing both owner and group of a file

chown newuser:newgrp filename







